you know science is a fantastic thing it
allows people to learn tons of
information about the world that
surrounds them but even better and let
you look at familiar objects from an
entirely different angle
to do this you need nothing more than a
microscope in this video you'll see 14
commonplace things in a new light first
you'll have some time to try to guess
what you see in the picture then you'll
find out the correct and often entirely
unpredictable answer number one look at
these stunning colorful objects don't
they look like minerals and gemstones
that have arrived from some faraway
galaxy unfortunately it's unlikely
that's the case you get 10 seconds to
guess what it is
[Music]
in fact it's sand from Jing down
province in China as you can see sand is
a mixture of AD bitty pieces of minerals
rocks shellfish and corals
you might also know that people use sand
to make cement interestingly Saudi
Arabia which is literally a sandy desert
has to import sand for construction
purposes the sand grains in the country
are so tiny that they can't be used to
make proper cement now that's weird
number two oh it looks like an exquisite
sweet treat from the Middle East but if
you disagree with this assumption you
have ten seconds to invent your own
version of what this beautiful object is
[Music]
this thing is neither sweet nor edible
which you see in the photo is a pine
needle by the way pine trees are real
long livers no not the internal organ
you have their age can reach 100 to 1000
years the oldest pine tree grows in Inyo
National Forest in California and it's
more than five thousand years old
number three are they the frost patterns
that appear on your window on a cold
winter morning or maybe it's an
underwater warm party what's your guess
[Music]
you're absolutely right if you recognize
silk fibers under the microscope this
fabric may seem delicate and fragile but
a silk rope is actually stronger than a
metal wire of the same diameter at the
same time silk is less dense in
comparison to wool or cotton number four
this one looks like a corn cob that's
gone bad doesn't it on the other hand
this corn might not be spoiled but
rather grilled and covered with soft
yummy do you agree with this idea
[Music]
surprisingly this object has nothing to
do with food it's a red starfish
although starfish are living beings they
have neither brain more blood
sounds like a roommate I used to have
but starfish can live as long as 35
years the most amazing fact about
starfish is that after they catch their
prey their stomach leaves their body
through the mouth and digest the food
after that it returns into their body
boy if people did that at restaurants
Pat would be totally gross
number 5 isn't that a color swatch
people used to choose the color of their
future sofa or are these the roof tiles
of a very creative person's house you
have 10 seconds to suggest your own idea
[Music]
well this is how a butterfly wing looks
under a microscope interesting lay under
these bright scales a butterfly's wing
is completely transparent it's so thin
that you can see through it also
butterflies can't regulate their body
temperature that's why they can't fly
when it's too cold outside their flight
muscles just don't work number six
these look like weirdly colored tennis
balls or is it some exotic caveat you
have ten seconds to form your own
opinions
[Music]
these objects are also connected with
butterflies they are butterfly eggs
however not all eggs have the same
nearly transparent color depending on
the butterfly species they can be yellow
green or white butterflies glue their
eggs to leaves and grass and an egg gets
destroyed if someone or some thing tries
to move it from its place number seven
it must be some dangerous bacteria on
the other hand it resembles some human
body cells do you agree with any of
these assumptions if you agree you've
bet on the wrong horse what you see in
the picture is good old yeast yeast is
single-celled microorganisms and they
reproduce by budding interesting lake
yeast can be used to produce electricity
and make biological car fuel based on
ethanol and if you leased a real fast
one someday you'd have a least yeast
Beast number eight look at this beauty
is it spill gasoline or a crystallized
rainbow you probably have an idea of
your own
[Music]
if you decided that this is what honey
looks like under a microscope you are
absolutely right honey is a product that
never spoils if you seal it in an
airtight container it will have an
eternal shelf-life after all they found
perfectly edible honey in Egyptian tombs
that are thousands of years old it's not
only honeybees that produce honey there
is another insect the Mexican honey wasp
which is known to make honey as well but
you should be extremely careful with the
honey produced by these wasps it can be
poisonous because of the flowers honey
wasp prefer number 9 it can't be
anything else but droplets of water
don't you think wait
maybe these are several single celled
organisms what do you think
[Music]
actually that's neither a living
creature nor water
it's glue at the beginning of the 18th
century people make glue from a
particular kind of fish sturgeon as for
super glue it appeared as a result of an
accident and his creator was immensely
annoyed by how sticky the new substance
was number 10 the next image is
incredible it looks so fresh and the
colors are so vibrant is it fruit juice
it might be some crystal what do you
think
[Music]
this beautiful image is regular red
cabbage anthocyanins a flavonoid found
in this type of cabbage is to thank for
the amazing color of the vegetable you
can find this flavonoid in flower petals
and blueberries as well people also use
red cabbage as a natural dye for food
and clothes number 11 the next picture
can't be anything but hey pour some
coursepack thread you have ten seconds
to agree or disagree with these
assumptions
[Music]
in fact it's something you deal with
very often in winter you may have a pair
of gloves a scarf or a sweater made from
this material
it's wool throughout history wool has
been an important commodity in different
cultures people used it not only to make
clothes but also to get rid of oil
spills and control erosion on road signs
wool is a unique clothing material
because it has high fire resistance in
addition it doesn't melt when it catches
fire unlike polyester or nylon 12 what
do you think about the next image are
these several twisted metal wires this
construction looks very strong and solid
[Music]
this is how a knot of nylon fibers looks
under a microscope nylon melts at high
temperatures by chemicals or sweat don't
weaken it at first nylon was used to
produce toothbrush bristles and
parachutes it was the first synthetic
fabric in the world another interesting
fact about nylon is that ape got its
name from two famous cities New York NY
and London LOM 13th well this one seems
to be some kind of exotic wood but if
you take a closer look you can imagine
that you're peering at a fire
what are your associations
[Music]
get ready for a surprise you're looking
at frozen apple juice apples are some of
the most popular fruit on the planet
there are more than 7500 kinds of apples
they have different colors shapes
textures acidity juiciness nutrition and
even harvesting times so you can imagine
the variety of apple juices in different
corners of the world number 14 the next
image looks pretty unusual it might be
dirt under your feet in the street or
could it be a large-scale photo of a big
city taken from spades
what do you think
[Music]
the truth is much more horrifying what
you see in the photo is ordinary house
dust the average American home collects
40 pounds of dust a year house dust
contains dead skin hair pollen paper and
textile fibers particles of soil animal
fur and so on lunch any button if the
dust particles are super tiny dust can
stay in the air for as long as five days
at the same time more than 40,000 tons
of cosmic dust fall on our planet every
year arriving in the form of micro
meteorites from space so it's not all
about dead skin might be dead aliens
thanks to dust you can witness
breathtaking sunsets and sunrises but
dust that gathers in the atmosphere lets
red and orange colors through but
absorbs green and blue so which of the
objects you saw under a microscope
confuse you the most right about your
impressions in the comment section below
remember to give us a thumbs up share
this video with your friends and hit
subscribe to move to the bright side of
life
[Music]